---
title: "WRF + WRFDA Uninorte HPC"
date: 2021-06-02T19:45:02.789Z
draft: false
---

The following guide show how to install, configure and run the Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF) and it's most popular module WRFDA in CentOS 8.2 - OpenHPC.
<!--more-->

## WRF
WRF 4.2, WPS 4.0, ARWpost, WRFDA 4.0, obsproc, NetCDF, NetCDF-Fortran, GFortran, C++, GrADS, UniData, MPI, jasper, libpng and others many dependencies are needed to run WRF, WRFDA and view the processed data, in this guide all these dependencies will be installed.
### Download, compile and configure WRF
For the execution of WRF it is necessary to download, compile and configure WPS and WRF, in this case all these process are synthesized by the installations scripts `setup-WRF.sh` and `setup-WRFDA.sh`

### Loading Module
Once the previous scripts have been executed, we proceed to load the WRF / 4.2.0 module, this by executing the following command:
```bash
module load wrf/4.2.0
```
### Download Initial Conditions
To download the initial conditions used by the model, it is required to be previously registered on the [NCAR](https://rda.ucar.edu/index.html?hash=data_user&action=register) website. Once registered, execute the following command and enter your email and password when required.

```bash
download-grib [INITIAL DATE] [FINAL DATE]
```

`[INITIAL DATE]` and `[FINAL DATE]` in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`
### Running WPS
The WRF Pre-Processing System (WPS) is a collection of Fortran and C programs that provides data used as input to the real.exe and real_nmm.exe programs. There are three main programs and a number of auxiliary programs that are part of WPS.  Both the ARW and NMM  dynamical cores in WRF are supported by WPS. 

To run WPS it is necessary to have downloaded the geographic data, modify the namelist.wps file with the parameters, domain and dimensions of the mesh, to know a little more about these parameters enter [here](https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/users/namelist_best_prac_wps.html) this file is located at `${WPS_DIR}` directory. Then run the following command specifying the start date and the end date.
```bash
run-wps -f [INITIAL DATE] -t [FINAL DATE] [INITIAL CONDITIONS]
```
`[INITIAL DATE]` and `[FINAL DATE]` in the format `"YYYY-MM-DD HH"`
`[INITIAL CONDITIONS]` Directory that contains inital conditions Ex: `./real-data`
### Running WRF
Weather Research and Forecasting Model (WRF) is a mesoscale numerical weather prediction system. To execute WRF it is necessary to modify the namelist.input file with the desired parameters, to know a little more about these parameters enter [here](https://esrl.noaa.gov/gsd/wrfportal/namelist_input_options.html) this file is located at `${WRF_DIR}` directory. Then execute the following command specifying the start date, the end date, the number of hours that the interval comprises and the output directory.

```bash
run-wrf -f [INITIAL DATE] -t [FINAL DATE] -s [NUMBERS OF HOURS] -o [OUTPUT DIRECTORY] 
```
`[INITIAL DATE]` and `[FINAL DATE]` in the format `"YYYY-MM-DD HH"`

### ARW-Post
This module generate GrADS and/or Vis5D input files from WRF ARW output files that allow to visualize the data in GrADS or Python. For this is necessary to modify the namelist.ARWpost file with the desired parameters, this file is located at `${ARW_DIR}` directory. Then execute the following command.
```bash
run-arwpost [INPUT NAMEFILE] [OUTPUT FILENAME]
```
Once executed, download the `OUTPUT FILENAME.ctl` and `OUTPUT FILENAME.dat` files, with which you can view the results of the model in the GrADS tool or in Python.
## WRFDA
To generate an ensemble with Weather Research and Forecasting Model Data Assimilation (WRFDA) perform the following steps. 

### Download, compile and configure WRF
For the execution of WRFDA it is necessary to download, compile and configure WRFDA, in this case all this process is synthesized by the following scripts.

### Loading Module
Once the previous scripts have been executed, we proceed to load the WRF / 4.2.0 module, this by executing the following command:
```bash
module load wrfda/4.0
```
### Configuring data
To execute WRFDA you need 3 data sets, a set of initial conditions generated by WRF, a pre-processed data set and a Background Error.

#### Initial conditions generated by WRF
For this data set it is necessary to execute WRF, to generate a set of initial conditions. It is not necessary to run it again since at the time you run WRFDA it will do it previously. REMEMBER RUN WPS.

#### Download pre-processed data set
To download the pre-processed data set used by the model, it is required to be previously registered on the [NCAR](https://rda.ucar.edu/index.html?hash=data_user&action=register) website. Once registered, execute the following command and enter your email and password when required.

```bash
download-prep [DATA SET INITIAL DATE] [DATA SET FINAL DATE]
```

`[DATA SET INITIAL DATE]` and `[DATA SET FINAL DATE]` in the format `YYYY-MM-DD`
#### Background Error
for the background error, there are two options, use a generated ensemble or use a default one that WRFDA brings, in this case it is generated with the default ensemble. If you want to modify it, you can do it from the  directory `${WRFDA_DIR}`, for more information enter [here](https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/users/docs/user_guide_v4/v4.3/users_guide_chap6.html#_Running_WRFDA_1).
### Generate an ensemble
To execute WRFDA it is necessary to modify the namelist.input file with the desired parameters, to know a little more about these parameters enter [here](https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/users/docs/user_guide_v4/v4.3/users_guide_chap6.html#_Running_WRFDA_1) this file is located at `${WRFDA_DIR}` directory. Then execute the following command specifying the start date, the end date, the number of hours that the interval comprises and the output directory.

```bash
generate_ensemble [NUMBER OF ENSEMBLE] -d [OUTPUT DIRECTORY]
```

### ARW-Post for ensembles
This module generate GrADS and/or Vis5D input files from WRF ARW output files that allow to visualize the data in GrADS or Python. For this is necessary to modify the namelist.ARWpost file with the desired parameters, this file is located at `${ARW_DIR}` directory. Then execute the following command.
```bash
run-arw-ensemble
```
Once executed, download the `ensemble-m1.ctl` and `ensemble-m1.dat` files, with which you can view the results of the model in the GrADS tool or in Python.
